# Delicious Bookmarks

A really simple web based bookmark storage and retrieval system that can be easily integrated in bookmarklets and extensions and which can serve as a very basic replacement for `del.icio.us`- or `pinboard`-like services.

## Launching

### Password Hashing

Accounts are password protected and the passwords are stored hashed and salted using the `bcrypt` algorithm. You can call the program with the following parameters to create a hashed and salted string of a plaintext password:

```bash
./gobookmarks -passwordtohash 'thisismysecretpassword'
```

### Initialising the Database

The program expects a `bookmarks.sqlite` sqlite3 database with an appropriate schema to exist. You can initialise an empty database with the following command:

```bash
./gobookmarks -initdb-username myusername -initdb-pass '<hashed and salted password as generated by -passwordtohash>'
```

### Starting the Server

The service will generate a random session key, this means that after each restart user provided cookies are invalid and they need to login again. You can configure a secret key to use by setting the environment variable `BOOKMARKS_SESSION_COOKIE_SECRET_KEY` to some string value.

The default port for the server will be `1323` but you can override that by setting the environment variable `BOOKMARKS_PORT`.

Assuming that a `bookmarks.sqlite` database is present in the current directory and that it contains at least one user with a password you can start the service using the following command:

```bash
./gobookmarks
```

### Security Concerns

There are no public pages in delicous bookmarks aside from the login page.

All queries use bound variables to prevent SQL injection attacks.

All pages are output using go templates and all database strings are automatically escaped for the corresponding context they are used. This prevents Cross Site Scripting (XSS) attacks.

All forms include randomly generated tokens that are verified on the server to prevent Cross-Site Request Forgery (XSRF/CSRF) attacks.

It is a good idea to operate the service behind a reverse proxy so you can layer concerns like HTTPS and rate limiting on top of it.

It is good practice to rate limit the login page in your reverse proxy. For example for nginx you can refine a rate limit like so:

```nginx
# Rate limiting as per blog post at https://www.nginx.com/blog/rate-limiting-nginx
limit_req_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=mylimit:10m rate=10r/s;
```

And then inside the `server` declaration for the bookmarks service you can specifically install this rate limiter for the login page:

```nginx
location /login {
    limit_req zone=mylimit;
    proxy_pass  http://127.0.0.1:1323/login
}
```

## Building

Two build scripts  and included for building the binary locally (`build-local.sh`) or using a docker container for better reproducability (`build-with-docker.sh`). The latter is recommended for binaries that are deployed for hosting somewhere as they build against a stable docker image that has a more conservative glibc dependency version as a local build may have.

## Migrating from Pinboard

The program can be started in a migration mode that will take a JSON export of a Pinboard account and import it into an empty database. The database must be initialised and one user account must have been created beforehand.

```bash
./gobookmarks -importUsername myusername -importFile my-pinboard-bookmarks.json
```

## Bookmarklet

You can call the `/addbookmark` page using a bookmarklet in the browser to quickly allow capturing new bookmarks. The code can look something like this (replace the URL with your own instance):

```js
javascript:void(window.open(`https://example.com/addbookmark?description=${encodeURIComponent(document.querySelector('meta[name="description"]')?.content  ?? document.querySelector('meta[name="twitter:description"]')?.content ?? "")}&title=${encodeURIComponent(document.title)}&url=${encodeURIComponent(location.href)}`,'Save Bookmark', 'width=700,height=500,left=0,top=0,resizable=yes,toolbar=no,location=no,scrollbars=yes,status=no,menubar=no'));
```

Note the usage of query parameters to prefill a bunch of fields from the existing metadata of the page.

## Architecture

This is a web application written in go, distributed as a statically linked binary. It stores its data in two tables in a sqlite 3 database: `users` and `bookmarks`. Users have bookmarks.

User authentication is form and password based. Passwords are stored salted and hashed using Bcrypt.

After logging into the application a cookie is set that is symmetrically encrypted and which contains the userid of the authenticated user.

The web application is completely JavaScript free, not for ideological reasons but simply because it doesn't need any at the moment.

The application supports adding, editing, searching and showing all bookmarks.

The bookmarks collection page is reverse chronologically sorted and paged using the [Scrolling Cursor pattern](https://www2.sqlite.org/cvstrac/wiki?p=ScrollingCursor) in sqlite.

Pages are delivered with gzip compression.

Pages are cached with a revalidate strategy that is based on the time of the last change made to the database for the current user.

Full text search is implemented using the sqlite fts5 extension. A build script is included for local and docker based builds to make sure the extension is activated.

One requirement of the design was that the addbookmark page was easily invokable from a bookmarklet or a browser extension as a shortcut for adding new URLs.

## TODO

- delete bookmark in the bookmark list
- edit bookmark in the bookmark list (just open in the addbookmarks page is fine)
